We added server side authorisation
and that's super important because that actually is the part which can be hacked easily.
The Angular code is just Javascript code running in the browser,
it can be edited by the user if he really wants to,
therefore Angular is always just used to provide a better user experience.
If we're blocking the user from doing something there, we're just doing it to prevent something which
will cause an error otherwise
but on the server side, we're doing the real protection, there
we really deny actions we don't want to happen on the front-end in Angular,
we just try to provide a better user experience but still, we should try to do that.
So in our app right now, every user can click delete,
even users who are authenticated but did not create a post,
so we should adjust our front-end code. In the post list component here,
we actually show these buttons,
edit and delete to any user who is authenticated.
Now that's not correct anymore,
we want to restrict this a bit further,
we only want to show these buttons to users who are authenticated and the creator of that post.
Now that means we need to get that user ID to the front-end first of all.
So let's go to our server side code and in the user route here, in the login route where we do return that
token to the front-end,
I don't just want to return the token and the expiry,
I also want to return the user ID, so here user ID and we can get that user ID simply from that fetched
user ID
which were also encoding in the token.
And by the way, since it's encoded in the token and that token can be decoded, we actually wouldn't have
to pass it as an extra field,
it's already part of the token but decoding the token will impact our performance on the front-end and
it's really unnecessary
which is why I'm passing this as an extra field with the response so that we can easily parse it.
So now we're passing the user ID to the front-end whenever we are logging in.
This means that we can now store this information on the front-end in the auth folder in the auth service
where we are sending that login request.
There we are already storing the authentication status and the token,
now I will add a new property to our auth service and that will be our user ID.
Now the user ID will be a string and if we had more information about the user which we use here on
the front-end, we could of course also create a separate user object,
so a model in our Angular code to hold that extra information,
so that we combine ID, e-mail, full name, whatever we might have in one model.
But here I just have to use the user ID
so I'm going to stick to that
but you could create such a separate user model if you needed that for your application.
Here it's the user ID I'm interested,
so in the login function here when we do get back to the response and we know that we have a token, then
I want to set this user ID equal to response user ID and I need to update my Typescript code here to
tell it that this post request will indeed yield a response which has a token which has the expiresIn
field and which now also has the user ID field which will hold a string.
So now we're extracting that user ID here and storing it in this user ID property of our service.
This means that we can now use that user ID in our application. For that,
I'll add a new method,
getUserId and there, I will just return this user ID.
Now I want to get that user ID from my post list component of course because there, I need to compare
it against the ID of the post we're looking at.
So in that post list component here, I will add a user ID field which initially is undefined but of type
string, so let's define the type here
and then in constructor, we're already injecting the auth service,
so in ngOnInit, I can fetch that user ID.
So here I will say this user ID equals this auth service getUserId.
Now I also want to fetch the updated user ID in case the authentication did change,
so that means I will also set user ID in the listener to my auth status change here.
So there where I reset the user is authenticated status,
I will also fetch the current user ID. That means that I want to fetch null or undefined here if
the user is switching from authenticated to unauthenticated,
so if the user is logging out. Therefore in the auth service, I have to reset the user ID field here whenever
we are logging out,
so here in logout, I will actually set this user ID equal to null.
This is important to ensure that this is reset correctly.
Additionally we also get our autoAuthUser method here where we sign the user in based on data we have
stored in local storage.
Now we're not storing the user ID in local storage yet but we need to do this of course because we need
that information in the future too.
So in saveAuthData, I expect to get one extra field which is the user ID which is of type string
and then I will simply call local storage, set item user ID and store that user ID we're getting as
an argument. In clearAuthData,
I of course want to delete that field now with remove item user ID and in getAuthData,
well there I want to return it,
so here I will get my user ID, reach out to the local storage and call get item user ID to retrieve that
from the local storage.
We now just have to add it to the object which we return here,
so there I will add my user ID field where I store that user ID fetched from the local storage.
So now we're getting that data, we're saving it in my authAutoUser field here where I'm fetching the
auth information,
this just means that if we have a valid token down there, I also should initialize this user ID with
my auth information user ID,
so with the user id fetched from the local storage.
So now we're also saving this,
there's just one more thing we have to do,
we're now expecting user ID as an argument on saveAuthData,
that means that here where we are calling this, I should store this piece of information of course.
So there, I will indeed store this user ID, so the user ID which I set here from the response. So now
the user ID should be managed correctly, in the next lecture,
we'll use it together with the creator ID attached to the post
to successfully manipulate the buttons we can click on a post.